.\" Manpage for MicroCA
.\" Contact jmedved@jmedved.com to correct errors or typos.
.TH MICROCA 1 "17 Feb 2019" "MAJOR.MINOR" "microca man page"

.SH NAME

microca \- OpenSSL wrapper


.SH SYNOPSIS

.ad l
\fBmicroca\fR [ \fB-a\fR ] [ \fB-b \fInumbits\fR ] [ \fB-c \fIfileprefix\fR ] [ \fB-d \fIdays\fR ] [ \fB-e\fR ] [ \fB-g \fIdigest\fR ] [ \fB-i \fIipaddress\fR ] [ \fB-m \fIemail\fR ] [ \fB-n \fIdnsname\fR ] [ \fB-p\fR ] [ \fB-q\fR ] [ \fB-r\fR ] [ \fB-s \fIsubject\fR ] [ \fB-u \fIusagebits\fR ] [ \fB-v\fR ] [ \fB-V\fR ] [ \fB-x\fR ] \fIfileprefix\fR


.SH DESCRIPTION
OpenSSL wrapper for creation of self-signed CA and certificates.


.SH OPTIONS

.TP
\fB-a\fR
Marks certificate as certificate authority.

.TP
\fB-b \fInumbits\fR
Number of bits to use for key. RSA keys can be between 1024 and 16384 bits (2048 default) while ECC keys can be either 256 (secp256r1/prime256v1; default), 384 (secp384r1) or 521 (secp521r1) bits.

.TP
\fB-c \fIfileprefix\fR
Prefix for CA (default value is ca).

.TP
\fB-d \fIdays\fR
Number of days certificate is valid for. Default value is 3650 days.

.TP
\fB-e\fR
Uses ECC algorithm instead of RSA for private key generation.

.TP
\fB-g \fIdigest\fR
Digest algorithm. Allowed values are sha256, sha384, and sha512. Default value is sha256.

.TP
\fB-i \fIipaddress\fR
IP address to add into subjectAltName extension. Can be repeated multiple times.

.TP
\fB-m \fIemail\fR
E-mail address to add into subjectAltName extension. Can be repeated multiple times.

.TP
\fB-n \fIdnsname\fR
DNS name to add into subjectAltName extension. Can be repeated multiple times.

.TP
\fB-p\fR
Creates a self-signed end entity certificate, i.e. no certificate authority is used.

.TP
\fB-q\fR
Do not use passphrase for private key.

.TP
\fB-r\fR
Creates a self-signed root certificate authority. Unless otherwise specified key length will be 4096 for RSA keys (384 for ECC) and digest algorithm will be sha384. Certificate will be valid for 7300 days.

.TP
\fB-s \fIsubject\fR
Full subject for a certificate (e.g. -s /C=US/CN=www.example.com).

.TP
\fB-u \fIusagebits\fR
Certificate usage bits. It must be one of following usages: digitalSignature, nonRepudiation, keyEncipherment, dataEncipherment, keyAgreement, keyCertSign, cRLSign, encipherOnly, decipherOnly, serverAuth, clientAuth, codeSigning, emailProtection, timeStamping, msCodeInd, msCodeCom, msCTLSign, msSGC, msEFS, or nsSGC. Additionally one can specify CA (cRLSign and keyCertSign), Server (digitalSignature, keyEncipherment, and serverAuth), Client (clientAuth), or BitLocker (1.3.6.1.4.1.311.67.1.1). If multiple usages are required, you can separate them with comma (,).

.TP
\fB-v\fR
Verbose output. It can be used multiple times for greater amount of details.

.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR
Show help.

.TP
\fB-V\fR
Show version.

.TP
\fB-x\fR
Exports the resulting key as PKCS12 file.

.TP
\fIfileprefix\fR
File name prefix to use for key and certificate.


.SH EXAMPLES

.SS Root CA

.TP
\fBmicroca -r\fR
Creates a root certificate authority. User is asked password for the key and all details of the certificate (e.g. subject). Key is placed into ca.key and certificate is into ca.cer.

.TP
\fBmicroca -r -b 4096\fR
Same as the first command but key length is specified to be 4096 bits (default is 2048).

.TP
\fBmicroca -r -b 4096 -s "CN=My Root CA"\fR
Instead of being asked for subject, subject is defined on the command line.

.TP
\fBmicroca -r -b 4096 -s "CN=My Root CA" -d 365\fR
The created root certificate is valid for 1 year only (default is 20 years).

.TP
\fBmicroca -ers "CN=My Root CA"\fR
The created root certificate uses ECC curve instead of an RSA key.


.SS Intermediate CA

.TP
\fBmicroca -a -b 2048 -s "CN=My Intermediate CA" inter-ca\fR
Creates an intermediate CA with 2048 bit long key and subject text specified on command line. Key is placed into inter-ca.key and certificate is into inter-ca.cer.


.SS End Entity

.TP
\fBmicroca test\fR
Creates an end-entity certificate signed using ca.key and ca.cer. User will be asked password for newly created key (and CA key, if password is present) and all the details of the certificate (e.g. subject). Key is placed into test.key and certificate is into test.cer.

.TP
\fBmicroca -q test\fR
Same as above but without a password for newly created key.

.TP
\fBmicroca -xq test\fR
Same as above but certificate and key are additionally exported to test.p12 PKCS#12 container.

.TP
\fBmicroca -xqu Server server\fR
Same as above but certificate is created with usage bits for server (digitalSignature, keyEncipherment, and serverAuth).

.TP
\fBmicroca -xqu Server -n localhost -i 127.0.0.1 -s "CN=localhost" server\fR
Same as before but certificate also contains subjectAltName with localhost as DNS name and 127.0.0.1 as IP address. Subject is also defined to be CN=localhost.

.TP
\fBmicroca -xqu Client client\fR
Same as before but certificate is created with usage bits for client (clientAuth).

.TP
\fBmicroca -xqu BitLocker bitlocker\fR
Same as before but certificate is created with usage bits for bitlocker (keyEncipherment and 1.3.6.1.4.1.311.67.1.1).

.TP
\fBmicroca -xqu BitLocker -c inter-ca bitlocker\fR
Same as before but certificate is signed by intermediate CA (contained into inter-ca.key and inter-ca.cer).


.SS Self-signed

.TP
\fBmicroca -qpb 1024 -s "CN=My Test" test\fR
Creates a self-signed end-entity certificate with 1024 bit RSA key and with subject CN=My Test. Key is placed into test.key and certificate into test.cer.

.TP
\fBmicroca -qepb 224 -s "CN=My Test" test\fR
Creates a self-signed end-entity certificate with 224 bit ECC key and with subject CN=My Test. Key is placed into test.key and certificate into test.cer.


.SH AUTHOR

Josip Medved <jmedved@jmedved.com>
